1. How are worker, executor and task related to each other?
Workers (aka slave nodes) are running Spark instances where executors live to execute tasks

2. What are the key features of Spark?

 Speed: Spark helps to run an application in Hadoop cluster, up to 100 times faster in memory, and 10 times faster when running on disk. 
 As it follows the concept of RDD (Resilient Distributed Dataset) which allows it to store data transparently in memory, 
 which helps in reducing read & write to disc one of the main time-consuming factor.
 
 Usability: Ability to support multiple languages makes it dynamic. It allows you quickly write application in Java, Scala, Python and R.
 Spark comes up with 80 high-level operators for interactive querying.
 
 In Memory Computing: Keeping data in servers' RAM as it makes accessing stored data quickly. 
 In memory, analytics accelerates iterative machine learning algorithms as it saves data read and write round trip from/to disk.
 
 Pillar to Sophisticated Analytics: Spark comes with tools for interactive / declarative queries, streaming data, machine learning which is 
 addition to simple map and reduce, so that users can combine all this into single workflow.
 
 Real Time Stream Processing: Spark streaming can handle real-time stream processing along with integration of other frameworks which concludes 
 that spark's streaming ability is easy, fault tolerance and Integrated.
 
 Compatibility with Hadoop & existing Hadoop Data: Spark is compatible with both versions of Hadoop ecosystem. 
 Be it YARN (Yet Another Resource Negotiator) or SIMR (Spark in MapReduce). It can read anything existing Hadoop data that’s what makes it suitable 
 for migration of pure Hadoop-MapReduce applications. It can run independently too.
 
 Lazy Evaluation: Another outstanding feature of Spark which is call by need or memorization. It waits for instructions before providing final result 
 which saves significant time.
 
 Active, progressive and expanding community: Built by wide set of developers from over 100 companies. It has active mailing state and JIRA for issue tracking. 
 It is most active component in Apache repository.

3. What is Spark Driver?
The spark driver is the program that declares the transformations and actions on RDDs of data and submits such requests to the master. 
In practical terms, the driver is the program that creates the SparkContext, connecting to a given Spark Master

4. What are the benefits of Spark over MapReduce?
 1.Spark is easy to program and don't require that much hand coding whereas MapReduce is not that easy in terms of programming and requires lots of hand coding
 2.It has interactive mode whereas in map reduce there is no built-in interactive mode, MapReduce is developed for batch processing.
 3.For data processing spark can use streaming, machine learning, and batch processing whereas Hadoop MapReduce can use the batch engine. 
 Spark is general purpose cluster computation engine.
 4.spark executes batch processing jobs about 10 to 100 times faster than Hadoop MapReduce.
 5.spark uses an abstraction called RDD which makes Spark feature rich, whereas map reduce doesn't have any abstraction
 6.spark uses lower latency by caching partial/complete results across distributed nodes whereas MapReduce is completely disk-based.

5. What is Spark Executor?
EXECUTORS. Executors are worker nodes' processes in charge of running individual tasks in a given Spark job. 
They are launched at the beginning of a Spark application and typically run for the entire lifetime of an application.